Arctic air bringing 'life-threatening' cold to Northeast
By Azadeh Ansari, CNN



The Northeast braces for "life-threatening" temperatures as bitter cold arctic air blows through much of the Northeast this weekend.

More than a dozen states are currently in a wind chill advisory or warning, according to the National Weather Service.

Wind chills of 25 F to 45 F below zero are expected for parts of New England, meteorologist says.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio urged New Yorkers to take precautionary measures in a press conference held at the New York City Office of Emergency Management on Saturday morning.

"The city is facing some of the coldest temperatures and wind chills we've seen in the last 20 years," de Blasio said.

Forecasters say a number of record low temperatures are expected Saturday night into Sunday morning for much of New England.

Near-zero temperatures are expected in New York's Central Park, while it will dip below zero in Boston.

Extreme temperatures even put the 2016 Ice Festival on ice. The Central Park event was canceled and will not be rescheduled "due to extreme temperatures and high winds," The Central Park Conservancy posted on Twitter.

"Extremely cold weather can be life-threatening -- especially for seniors, infants and people with medical conditions. We are urging residents to stay inside as much as possible, take care of yourselves and your neighbors, and wear multiple layers of warm clothing when outside," said de Blasio.

Mayor de Blasio also issued a city wide advisory to all property owners, construction sites and crane operators to take precautions; all crane operations were stopped on Saturday because of the high winds.

Weather maps show a cold air mass across the Great Lakes triggering heavy lake-effect snow that is pushing inland, especially near Buffalo, New York.


Lake-effect snow comes about as moisture from warmer lake waters mixes with cold air from the north, causing upward of 2 to 3 inches of snow an hour.

"Depending on where you are, if you're just south or north of this lake effect, it can look like a wall of snow is coming down," said CNN meteorologist Chad Myers.

Forecasters predict as many as 18 cities in the East could see record lows on Sunday, which is Valentine's Day.

This bone-chilling cold weather comes a little more than two weeks after a massive winter storm pummeled New York and the Mid-Atlantic states with several feet of snow.

Elsewhere, another storm is expected to develop Monday in the Southeast and then move to the Northeast by Tuesday. The heaviest snow will likely fall from Tennessee to the interior Northeast, meteorologists say, especially near the eastern Great Lakes and higher elevations of the Appalachians.
